Abstract:
The release of hydrocarbon petroleum into the environment of seas, water bodies, or marine ecosystems is basically called an oil spill.

Oil spills, caused by barge accidents involving tankers and many environmental causes, have put forward a huge threat to the marine 
ecosystem. The disposal of liquid petroleum causes a number of ecological disasters and is harmful to both humans as well as the
marine life. There are various methods for the early detection and for the detection after the spill.

For the prediction of the occurrence of an oil spill, Automatic Identification System (AIS) data was developed containing tankers 
detail timestamp, longitude and latitude of the tankers. For oil spill detection after the occurrence of the event, Synthetic 
Aperture Radar (SAR) systems, in spite of cloud coverage & sunlight, are capable of discriminating between real oil spills and 
regular sea surface. Well-performed discrimination by SAR expert image interpreters, but it poses a big challenge for the automatic 
process. When a visual check is performed by a special expert operator on a large number of images, it would be too time-consuming and 
expensive too.

Our work presents an innovative solution which is based on image translation in the last few years for the detection using machine 
learning. Using Machine Learning and Deep learning algorithms like convolutional neural network (CNNs) and Support Vector Machine 
(SVM) for data interpretation, we build a solution where a system predicts the oil spill before it happens based of the AIS i.e., 
live dataset of the tankers using a threshold value and sends warnings to the technicians. It also computes the data of oil density, 
depth and surface distribution after the event has occurred.  The proposed approach has tested with promising results.


Idea Solution:
The objective of our project is to detect the Oil Spill before it happens and compute the damage control after the situation takes place.
We have the Live AIS Dataset that has all the parameters, which upon crossing a threshold value as per the oil tank, warns the workers at
the Oil Rigs so as to prevent the event from occurring. If the case arises where the oil spill could not be prevented, we use SAR systems
to classify the damage and take necessary precautions as needed.
